Document why we have a many-many relationship between differential types and primal types (#138)
JuliaDiff/ChainRulesCore.jl: docs/src/design/many_differentials.md

# Design Notes: 1-1, vs many-many relationship between differential types and primal types.

ChainRules (and other earlier packages in Julia AD ecosystem) has a system where one primal type (the type being having its derivative taken) can have multiple possible differential types (the type of the derivative); and that one differential type can corresponds to multiple primal types.

This is in-contrast to the Swift AD efforts.
Which has one differential type, per primal type.
(Swift uses the term associated tangent type, rather than differential type).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! terminology "(co)vectors" If we wish to be careful with terminology, it should be noted that differentials naturally live in the [_cotangent_ plane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cotangent_space) instead of the [tangent plane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tangent_space). This distinction is conceptually important, but for convenience, accessibility and consistency with Swift's terminology, we will refer to differentials as vectors in the tangent plane. 

The reason it is conceptually important to distinguish between vectors and covectors is that the notion of a 'dot product' between two vectors relies on defining geometrical notions of distance between two points, whereas the equivalent of a 'dot product' between a vector and a covector does not need any such notion. This is vital for ensuring that tools like gradient descent work whether or not we know how to measure lengths and distances in our space, such as in many machine learning applications. 
```

The second paragraph is less important than the first and can be nixed if it's too wordy for this.

Author: `!!!` blocks need their body to be indented with 4 spaced

Reviewer: updated

> One thing to understand about differentials is they have to form a vector space (or something very like them).

Author: ```suggestion
One thing to understand about differentials is they have to form a [vector space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_space) (or something very like them).
```

    `Int` is intrinsically discrete.
    It is commonly used for indexing, and if one takes a gradient step, say turning `x[2]` into `x[2.1]` then that is an error.
    However, disallowing `Int` to be used as a differential means we can not handle cases like `DateTime` having a inner field of milliseconds counted as an integer from the unix epoch; or other cases where an integer is used as a convenience for computational efficiency.
    In the case where a custom sensitivity rule claims that there is a non-zero derivative for an `Int` argument that is being used for indexing, that code is simply wrong.
    We can’t handle incorrect code and trying to is a path toward madness.
    Julia, unlike Swift, is not well suited to handling rules about what you can and can’t do with particular types.

So the structural differential is another type of differential.
Since AD can only create structural differentials, unless using custom sensitivity rules; and since all custom sensitivities are only written in terms of natural differentials, as that is what is used in papers about derivatives.
So you need to support both.

> ### Semi-structural differentials

Author: ```suggestion

### Semi-structural differentials
```

We noted that all differentials need to be a vector space.
 `Zero()` is the [trivial vector space](https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Definition:Trivial_Vector_Space).
Further, add `Zero()` to any primal value (no matter the type) and you get back another value of the same primal type (the same value in fact).
So it meets the requirements of a differential type for *all* primal types.
`Zero` can be a saving on memory since we can avoid allocating anything, and on time since performing the multiplication
`Zero` and `Thunk` are both examples of a differential type that is valid for multiple primal types.

### Conclusion
Now, you have seen examples of both differential types that work for multiple primal types, and primal types that have  multiple valid differential types.
Semantically we can handle these very easily in julia.
Just put in a few more dispatching on `+`.
Multiple-dispatch is great like that.
The down-side is our type-inference becomes hard.
If you have exactly 1 differential type for each primal type, you can very easily workout what all the types on your reverse pass will be - you don't really need type inference - but you lose so much expressibility.

> ### Appendix: What Swift does

Author: This section is kind of weak (and written in first person) because I don't know enough about what Swift is doing

Beyond being a vector space, differentials need to be able to be added to a primal value to get back another primal value. 
Or roughly equivalently a differential is a difference between two primal values.

One thing to note in this example is that the primal does not have to be a vector space.
We can however always transform it to be a vector space via choosing an origin, and expressing each primal value as a differential typed distance from that origin.
As an example, consider `DateTime`. A `DateTime` is not a vector space: there is no `zero(::DateTime)`, and `DateTime`s cannot be added to each other. The corresponding differential type is any subtype of `Period`, such as `Millisecond`, `Hour`, `Day` etc. 
### Natural differential

For a given primal type, we say a natural differential type is one which people would intuitively think of as representing the difference between two primal values.
It tends to already exist outside of the context of AD.
So `Millisecond`, `Hour`, `Day` etc. are the _natural differentials_ for the `DateTime` primal.

> Note here that we already have a one primal type to many differential types relationship. We have `Millisecond` and `Hour` and `Day` all being valid differential types for `DateTime`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note here that we already have a one primal type to many differential types relationship. 
We have `Millisecond` and `Hour` and `Day` all being valid differential types for `DateTime`. 
```

For types with more complex semantics, such as array types, these considerations are much more important.

Natural differential types are the types people tend to think in, and thus the type they tend to write custom sensitivity rules in.
An important special case of natural differentials, is when a primal type is a vector space (e.g. `Real`,`AbstractMatrix`) in which case it is _common_ for the natural differential type to be the same as the primal type.
One exception to this is `getindex`.
The ideal choice of differential type for `getindex` on a dense array would be some type of spare array, due to the fact the derivative will have only one non-zero element.
This actually further brings us to a weirdness of differential types not actually being closed under addition, as it would be ideal for the spare array to become a dense array if summed over all elements.

### Structural differential types

> AD cannot automatically determine natural differential types for a primal. For some types we may be able to declare manually their natural differential type. Other types will not have natural differential types at all - e.g. `NamedTuple`, `Tuple`, `WebServer`, `Flux.Dense` -  so we are destined to make some up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AD cannot automatically determine natural differential types for a primal. For some types we may be able to declare manually their natural differential type. 
Other types will not have natural differential types at all - e.g. `NamedTuple`, `Tuple`, `WebServer`, `Flux.Dense` -  so we are destined to make some up.
```

    `Int` is intrinsically discrete.
    It is commonly used for indexing, and if one takes a gradient step, say turning `x[2]` into `x[2.1]` then that is an error.
    However, disallowing `Int` to be used as a differential means we can not handle cases like `DateTime` having a inner field of milliseconds counted as an integer from the unix epoch; or other cases where an integer is used as a convenience for computational efficiency.
    In the case where a custom sensitivity rule claims that there is a non-zero derivative for an `Int` argument that is being used for indexing, that code is simply wrong.
    We can’t handle incorrect code and trying to is a path toward madness.
    Julia, unlike Swift, is not well suited to handling rules about what you can and can’t do with particular types.

So the structural differential is another type of differential.
Since AD can only create structural differentials, unless using custom sensitivity rules; and since all custom sensitivities are only written in terms of natural differentials, as that is what is used in papers about derivatives.
So you need to support both.

### Semi-structural differentials

> Where there is no natural differential type for the outermost type, but there is for some of its fields, which can call this a semi-structural differential.

Author: This section uses _semi-structural differential_ for two related things.
Both of them use the types that exist for structural differentials, but do not entirely follow the structure of the type.
Both show up in human written rules only.

I wonder if we should use two words.

The first kind is where you use a structural differential type (`Composite`) for the outer most types but natural for (some) of the inside types.
This could be called mixed-structural or something.

The second is where you use something like structural but based on the propertynames, rather than the fieldnames.
This could be called _property-structural_ ?
 
This could be called a

An important special case of natural differentials, is when a primal type is a vector space (e.g. `Real`,`AbstractMatrix`) in which case it is _common_ for the natural differential type to be the same as the primal type.
One exception to this is `getindex`.
The ideal choice of differential type for `getindex` on a dense array would be some type of spare array, due to the fact the derivative will have only one non-zero element.
This actually further brings us to a weirdness of differential types not actually being closed under addition, as it would be ideal for the spare array to become a dense array if summed over all elements.

## Structural differential types

AD cannot automatically determine natural differential types for a primal. For some types we may be able to declare manually their natural differential type.
Other types will not have natural differential types at all - e.g. `NamedTuple`, `Tuple`, `WebServer`, `Flux.Dense` -  so we are destined to make some up.
So beyond _natural_ differential types, we also have _structural_ differential types.

> ChainRules uses `Composite{P, <:NamedTuple}` to represent a structural differential type corresponding to primal type `P`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ChainRules uses [`Composite{P, <:NamedTuple}`](@ref Composite) to represent a structural differential type corresponding to primal type `P`.
```

`Zygote v0.4` uses `NamedTuple`.
Structural differentials are derived from the structure of the input.
Either automatically, as part of the AD, or manually as part of a custom rule.

Consider the structure of `DateTime`:
```julia
julia> dump(now())
DateTime
  instant: UTInstant{Millisecond}
    periods: Millisecond
      value: Int64 63719890305605
```

The corresponding structural differential is;
```julia
Composite{DateTime}(
    instant::Composite{UTInstant{Millisecond}}(
        periods::Composite{Millisecond}(
                value::Int64
        )
    )
)

```

> !!! note “One must be allowed to take derivatives of integer arguments”

Reviewer 3: this fixes it
```suggestion
!!! note "One must be allowed to take derivatives of integer arguments"
```

    We can’t handle incorrect code and trying to is a path toward madness.
    Julia, unlike Swift, is not well suited to handling rules about what you can and can’t do with particular types.

So the structural differential is another type of differential.
Since AD can only create structural differentials, unless using custom sensitivity rules; and since all custom sensitivities are only written in terms of natural differentials, as that is what is used in papers about derivatives.
So you need to support both.

## Semi-structural differentials

Where there is no natural differential type for the outermost type, but there is for some of its fields, which can call this a semi-structural differential.

Consider if we had a representation of a country's GDP as output by some continuous time model like a Gaussian Process, where that representation is as a sequence of `TimeSample`s.

Where a `TimeSample` is a structure as follows:
```julia
julia> struct TimeSample
           time::DateTime
           value::Float64
       end
```

We can look at its structure:

> julia> dump(TimeSample(now(), 2.6e9))

Reviewer 3: need to open triple-backticks before this line

Reviewer 3: this one's important cos it breaks rendering after this point

Author: ```suggestion
```julia
julia> dump(TimeSample(now(), 2.6e9))
```

To return to the question of why ChainRules has `Composite{P, <:NamedTuple}` whereas Zygote v0.4 just has `NamedTuple`, it relates to semi-structural derivatives, and being able to overload things more generally.
If one knows that one has a semi-structural derivative based on property names, like `Composite{QR}(Q=..., R=...)`, and one is adding it to the true structural derivative based on field names `Composite{QR}(factors=..., τ=...)`, then we need to overload the addition operator to perform that correctly.
We cannot overload happily similar things for `NamedTuple` since we don't know the primal type, only the names of the values contained.
In fact we can't actually overload addition at all for `NamedTuple` as that would be type-piracy, so have to use `Zygote.accum` instead.

Another use of the primal being a type parameter is to catch errors.
ChainRules disallows the addition of `Composite{SVD}` to `Composite{QR}` since in a correctly differentiated program that can never occur.

## Differentials types for computational efficiency

There is another kind of unnatural differential.
One that is for computational efficiency.

> ChainRules has `Thunk`s and `InplaceThunk`s, which wrap a computation that computes a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being `unthunk`ed manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ChainRules has [`Thunk`](@ref)s and [`InplaceThunk`](@ref)s, which wrap a computation that computes a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being [`unthunk`](@ref)ed manually.
```

Thus saving time if it is never used.

> Another differential type used for efficiency is `Zero` which represents the hard zero (in Zygote v0.4 this is `nothing`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another differential type used for efficiency is [`Zero`](@ref) which represents the hard zero (in Zygote v0.4 this is `nothing`).
```

They are, as I understand it, handling `Zero` by requiring every differential type to define a `zero` method -- which it has since it is a vector space,
This costs memory and time, but probably not actually all that much.
With regards to handling multiple different differential types for one primal, like natural and structural derivatives, everything needs to be converted to the _canonical_ differential type of that primal.

As I understand it things can be automatically converted by defining conversion protocols or something like that, so rule authors can return anything that has a conversion protocol to the canonical differential type of the primal.

However, it seems like this will run into problems.
Recall that the natural differential in the case of `getindex` on an `AbstractArray` was a sparse array.
But for say the standard dense `Array`, the only reasonable canonical differential type is also a dense `Array`.
But if you convert a spare array into a dense array you do giant allocations to fill in all the other entries with zero.

> So this is the story about why we have many-to-many differential types in ChainRules.

Reviewer 3: I'd move this to be the final line of `Conclusion` section instead

To return to the question of why ChainRules has `Composite{P, <:NamedTuple}` whereas Zygote v0.4 just has `NamedTuple`, it relates to semi-structural derivatives, and being able to overload things more generally.
If one knows that one has a semi-structural derivative based on property names, like `Composite{QR}(Q=..., R=...)`, and one is adding it to the true structural derivative based on field names `Composite{QR}(factors=..., τ=...)`, then we need to overload the addition operator to perform that correctly.
We cannot happily overload similar things for `NamedTuple` since we don't know the primal type, only the names of the values contained.
In fact we can't actually overload addition at all for `NamedTuple` as that would be type-piracy, so have to use `Zygote.accum` instead.

Another use of the primal being a type parameter is to catch errors.
ChainRules disallows the addition of `Composite{SVD}` to `Composite{QR}` since in a correctly differentiated program that can never occur.

## Differentials types for computational efficiency

There is another kind of unnatural differential.
One that is for computational efficiency.

> ChainRules has [`Thunk`](@ref)s and [`InplaceableThunk`](@ref)s, which wrap the computation of a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being [`unthunk`](@ref)ed manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ChainRules has [`Thunk`](@ref)s and [`InplaceableThunk`](@ref)s, which wrap the computation of a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being [`unthunk`](@ref)ed manually,
```

It tends to already exist outside of the context of AD.
So `Millisecond`, `Hour`, `Day` etc. are examples of _natural differentials_ for the `DateTime` primal.

Note here that we already have a one primal type to many differential types relationship.
We have `Millisecond` and `Hour` and `Day` all being valid differential types for `DateTime`.
In this case we _could_ convert them all to a single differential type, such as `Nanoseconds`, but that is not always a reasonable decision: we may run in to overflow, or lots of allocations if we need to use a `BigInt` to represent the number of `Nanosecond` since the start of the universe.
For types with more complex semantics, such as array types, these considerations are much more important.

Natural differential types are the types people tend to think in, and thus the type they tend to write custom sensitivity rules in.
An important special case of natural differentials is when the primal type is a vector space (e.g. `Real`,`AbstractMatrix`) in which case it is _common_ for the natural differential type to be the same as the primal type.
One exception to this is `getindex`.

> The ideal choice of differential type for `getindex` on a dense array would be some type of spare array, due to the fact the derivative will have only one non-zero element.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ideal choice of differential type for `getindex` on a dense array would be some type of sparse array, due to the fact the derivative will have only one non-zero element.
```

> This actually further brings us to a weirdness of differential types not actually being closed under addition, as it would be ideal for the spare array to become a dense array if summed over all elements.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This actually further brings us to a weirdness of differential types not actually being closed under addition, as it would be ideal for the sparse array to become a dense array if summed over all elements.
```

## Structural differential types

AD cannot automatically determine natural differential types for a primal. For some types we may be able to declare manually their natural differential type.
Other types will not have natural differential types at all - e.g. `NamedTuple`, `Tuple`, `WebServer`, `Flux.Dense` -  so we are destined to make some up.
So beyond _natural_ differential types, we also have _structural_ differential types.
ChainRules uses [`Composite{P, <:NamedTuple}`](@ref Composite) to represent a structural differential type corresponding to primal type `P`.
[Zygote](https://github.com/FluxML/Zygote.jl/) v0.4 uses `NamedTuple`.

Structural differentials are derived from the structure of the input.

> Either automatically, as part of the AD, or manually as part of a custom rule.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Either automatically, as part of the AD, or manually, as part of a custom rule.
```

Consider the structure of `DateTime`:
```julia
julia> dump(now())
DateTime
  instant: UTInstant{Millisecond}
    periods: Millisecond
      value: Int64 63719890305605
```

> The corresponding structural differential is;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The corresponding structural differential is:
```

```julia
Composite{DateTime}(
    instant::Composite{UTInstant{Millisecond}}(
        periods::Composite{Millisecond}(
            value::Int64
        )
    )
)
```

!!! note "One must be allowed to take derivatives of integer arguments"
    This brings up another contrast to Swift.
    In Swift `Int` is considered non-differentiable, which is quite reasonable; it doesn’t have a very good definition of the limit of a small step (as that would be some floating/fixed point type).
    `Int` is intrinsically discrete.
    It is commonly used for indexing, and if one takes a gradient step, say turning `x[2]` into `x[2.1]` then that is an error.

>     However, disallowing `Int` to be used as a differential means we can not handle cases like `DateTime` having a inner field of milliseconds counted as an integer from the unix epoch; or other cases where an integer is used as a convenience for computational efficiency.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    However, disallowing `Int` to be used as a differential means we cannot handle cases like `DateTime` having an inner field of milliseconds counted as an integer from the unix epoch or other cases where an integer is used as a convenience for computational efficiency.
```

    In the case where a custom sensitivity rule claims that there is a non-zero derivative for an `Int` argument that is being used for indexing, that code is simply wrong.
    We can’t handle incorrect code and trying to is a path toward madness.
    Julia, unlike Swift, is not well suited to handling rules about what you can and can’t do with particular types.

So the structural differential is another type of differential.

> We must support both natural and structual differentials, because AD can only create structural differentials, unless using custom sensitivity rules, and all custom sensitivities are only written in terms of natural differentials, as that is what is used in papers about derivatives.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We must support both natural and structural differentials because AD can only create structural differentials (unless using custom sensitivity rules) and all custom sensitivities are only written in terms of natural differentials, as that is what is used in papers about derivatives.
```

## Semi-structural differentials

Where there is no natural differential type for the outermost type, but there is for some of its fields, which can call this a semi-structural differential.

> Consider if we had a representation of a country's GDP as output by some continuous time model like a Gaussian Process, where that representation is as a sequence of `TimeSample`s.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consider if we had a representation of a country's GDP as output by some continuous time model like a Gaussian Process, where that representation is as a sequence of `TimeSample`s
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Where a `TimeSample` is a structure as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
structured as follows:
```

```julia
julia> struct TimeSample
           time::DateTime
           value::Float64
       end
```

We can look at its structure:
```julia
julia> dump(TimeSample(now(), 2.6e9))
TimeSample
  time: DateTime
    instant: Dates.UTInstant{Millisecond}
      periods: Millisecond
        value: Int64 63720043490844
  value: Float64 2.6e9
```

Thus we see the that structural differential would be:
```julia

> Composite{TimeSample})

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Composite{TimeSample}(
```

    time::Composite{DateTime}(
        instant::Composite{UTInstant{Millisecond}}(
            periods::Composite{Millisecond}(
                value::Int64
            )
        )

>     )

Reviewer 3: take make valid code
```suggestion
    ),
```

    value::Float64
)
```

But instead in the custom sensitivity rule we would write a semi-structured differential type.

> Since there is not a natural differential type for `TimeSample` but there is for `DateTime`.

Reviewer 4: Combine this sentence with the one above

```julia

> Composite{TimeSample})

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Composite{TimeSample}(
```

>     time::Day

Reviewer 3: to make it valid julia code (where `time` is a variable, of type `Day`)
```suggestion
    time::Day,
```

    value::Float64
)
```

So the rule author has written a structural differential with some fields that are natural differentials.

Another related case is for types that overload `getproperty` such as `SVD` and `QR`.
In this case the structural differential will be based on the fields, but those fields do not always have an easy relation to what is actually used in math.
For example, the `QR` type has fields `factors` and `t`, but we would more naturally think in terms of the properties `Q` and `R`.
So most rule authors would want to write semi-structural differentials based on the properties.

To return to the question of why ChainRules has `Composite{P, <:NamedTuple}` whereas Zygote v0.4 just has `NamedTuple`, it relates to semi-structural derivatives, and being able to overload things more generally.
If one knows that one has a semi-structural derivative based on property names, like `Composite{QR}(Q=..., R=...)`, and one is adding it to the true structural derivative based on field names `Composite{QR}(factors=..., τ=...)`, then we need to overload the addition operator to perform that correctly.

> We cannot overload happily similar things for `NamedTuple` since we don't know the primal type, only the names of the values contained.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We cannot happily overload similar things for `NamedTuple` since we don't know the primal type, only the names of the values contained.
```

In fact we can't actually overload addition at all for `NamedTuple` as that would be type-piracy, so have to use `Zygote.accum` instead.

Another use of the primal being a type parameter is to catch errors.
ChainRules disallows the addition of `Composite{SVD}` to `Composite{QR}` since in a correctly differentiated program that can never occur.

## Differentials types for computational efficiency

There is another kind of unnatural differential.
One that is for computational efficiency.

> ChainRules has [`Thunk`](@ref)s and [`InplaceThunk`](@ref)s, which wrap a computation that computes a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being [`unthunk`](@ref)ed manually.

Reviewer 3: correct name - needed to fix docs build
```suggestion
ChainRules has [`Thunk`](@ref)s and [`InplaceableThunk`](@ref)s, which wrap a computation that computes a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being [`unthunk`](@ref)ed manually.
```

> ChainRules has [`Thunk`](@ref)s and [`InplaceableThunk`](@ref)s, which wrap a computation that computes a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being [`unthunk`](@ref)ed manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ChainRules has [`Thunk`](@ref)s and [`InplaceableThunk`](@ref)s, which wrap the computation of a derivative and delays that work until it is needed, either via the derivative being added to something or being [`unthunk`](@ref)ed manually.
```

> Thus saving time if it is never used.

Reviewer 4: Also combine this with the sentence above

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
thus saving time if it is never used.
```

Another differential type used for efficiency is [`Zero`](@ref) which represents the hard zero (in Zygote v0.4 this is `nothing`).
For example the derivative of `f(x, y)=2x` with respect to `y` is `Zero()`.
Add `Zero()` to anything, and one gets back the original thing without change.
We noted that all differentials need to be a vector space.
 `Zero()` is the [trivial vector space](https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Definition:Trivial_Vector_Space).
Further, add `Zero()` to any primal value (no matter the type) and you get back another value of the same primal type (the same value in fact).
So it meets the requirements of a differential type for *all* primal types.

> `Zero` can be a saving on memory since we can avoid allocating anything, and on time since performing the multiplication

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`Zero` can save on memory (since we can avoid allocating anything) and on time (since performing the multiplication
```

does this sentence continue below?

`Zero` and `Thunk` are both examples of a differential type that is valid for multiple primal types.

## Conclusion

Now, you have seen examples of both differential types that work for multiple primal types, and primal types that have  multiple valid differential types.
Semantically we can handle these very easily in julia.
Just put in a few more dispatching on `+`.
Multiple-dispatch is great like that.
The down-side is our type-inference becomes hard.
If you have exactly 1 differential type for each primal type, you can very easily workout what all the types on your reverse pass will be - you don't really need type inference - but you lose so much expressibility.

## Appendix: What Swift does

I don't know how Swift is handling thunks, maybe they are not, maybe they have an optimizing compiler that can just slice out code-paths that don't lead to values that get used; maybe they have a language built in for lazy computation.

> They are, as I understand it, handling `Zero` by requiring every differential type to define a `zero` method -- which it has since it is a vector space,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
They are, as I understand it, handling `Zero` by requiring every differential type to define a `zero` method -- which it has since it is a vector space.
```

This costs memory and time, but probably not actually all that much.
With regards to handling multiple different differential types for one primal, like natural and structural derivatives, everything needs to be converted to the _canonical_ differential type of that primal.

> As I understand it things can be automatically converted by defining conversion protocols or something like that, so rule authors can return anything that has a conversion protocol to the canonical differential type of the primal.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As I understand it, things can be automatically converted by defining conversion protocols or something like that, so rule authors can return anything that has a conversion protocol to the canonical differential type of the primal.
```

However, it seems like this will run into problems.
Recall that the natural differential in the case of `getindex` on an `AbstractArray` was a sparse array.
But for say the standard dense `Array`, the only reasonable canonical differential type is also a dense `Array`.

> But if you convert a spare array into a dense array you do giant allocations to fill in all the other entries with zero.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
But if you convert a sparse array into a dense array you do giant allocations to fill in all the other entries with zero.
```

    However it is often reasonable for AD to treat the cotangent plane and tangent plane as the same thing, and this was an intentional choice by the Swift team.
    Here we will be a bit more tight with terminology and just stick to the ChainRules terminology and only say “differential type” instead of “tangent type”.

One thing to understand about differentials is they have to form a [vector space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_space)  (or something very like them).
They need to support addition to each other, they need a zero which doesn't change what it is added to, and they need to support scalar multiplication (this isn't really required, but it is handy for things like gradient descent). 
Beyond being a vector space, differentials need to be able to be added to a primal value to get back another primal value. 
Or roughly equivalently a differential is a difference between two primal values.

One thing to note in this example is that the primal does not have to be a vector space.

> We can however always transform it to be a vector space via choosing an origin, and expressing each primal value as a differential typed distance from that origin.

Reviewer 5: I can't parse this sentence. 

"We can transform an object t to a vector space" parses to tangent functor maps object ``x`` to tangent spaces ``T_x``.
Now I get stuck. The following discussion does hold for tangent spaces: There is a natural origin in a tangent space, given by the "zero" derivation // curve // dual to the zero function. If we think about exponential maps, ie. maps (I'm lying here: these can exist if you restrict to small neighborhoods) ``T_x \rightarrow X``, the zero always represents the point ``x``.

The choice of ``x`` also reflects the action by the *torsor* group, which happens to be isomorphic to ``X``, in the case of a single Float DateTime type. DateTime is not a vector space, but we have the happy accident that we do have a non-canonical isomorphism between ``T_x X`` and ``X``. 

 It's a bit more tricky if our type is, say, periodic, but we still have a surjective exponential map ``T_x \rightarrow X`` for all ``x``. This map can be written down as a formal power series pretty generally!

Author: I am just going to delete that section as it doesn't add much at all, and can confuse things.

As an example, consider `DateTime`. A `DateTime` is not a vector space: there is no `zero(::DateTime)`, and `DateTime`s cannot be added to each other. The corresponding differential type is any subtype of `Period`, such as `Millisecond`, `Hour`, `Day` etc. 

> ### Natural differential

Reviewer 5: I'm curious about the motivation of natural differentials. Correct me if I'm wrong:
 ``X = V_1\times V_2 \times ... \times V_k``, where ``V_i`` are ``K_i``-vector spaces (``K_i`` are float types) are precisely  spaces ``X`` where natural differentials exist. In this case, we have the above torsor-like structure (except we have an additive action by this product of vector spaces!). The natural differential type is isomorphic to ``X``, only the identification between ``X`` and ``D(X)`` is ambiguous (changing to ``D``-notation).

Author: The motivation is solely around the fact that the type system exists and there are some types people want to use to represent differentials, that are not `Composite`.

For a given primal type, we say a natural differential type is one which people would intuitively think of as representing the difference between two primal values.
It tends to already exist outside of the context of AD.

> So `Millisecond`, `Hour`, `Day` etc. are the _natural differentials_ for the `DateTime` primal.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
So `Millisecond`, `Hour`, `Day` etc. are examples of _natural differentials_ for the `DateTime` primal.
```
